+++
draft = false
title = "Minutes for 2018-03-22"
description="Meetup"
language = "en"
tags = [
    "meetups",
    "kubernetes"
]
date = "2018-03-22T13:10:52-05:00"
type = "meetup"
[menu.meetup]
  Identifer = "meetup-20180322"
  Weight = 2
  Parent = "Meetups"
+++

> Minutes taken by: [Zachary Seguin](https://zacharyseguin.ca)

## Introduction

**Canadian Digital Services - Collaboration Room**

* Canadian Digital Services / Statistics Canada organized
* Importance of Cloud native
* As Developers our view points aren't always appreciated
* Policy makers make decisions and we enact it

### Vision

* Long road, not everything can be done by cloud native
* IaaS formulas, Amazon, Azure, etc. is not cloud native
* Should focus on purely cloud native, can go any cloud
* If it's been solved in cloud native, we should take and learn. Share with everyone
* Strive for developer freedom
* Need to act as one voice
* Group - skunkworks
* Worried about procurement works in government
   - Azure service fabric (probably more .NET, weaker on non-.NET)
   - Pivotal
   - OpenShift
* 1hr for planning items
* Demo @ Statistics Canada

## Planning Items

### Departments

* Public works
* Canadian Digital Service,
* TBS (Infobase, GC tools [containers, k8s, etc. - wiki fully in containers],
* Open Government Portal [on azure]),
* PSC [w/ SSC for OpenShift],
* Statistics Canada,
* ESDC [mobile app dev shop, purchasing public cloud for dev environments]

### Scope

Ignore standard IaaS, cloud-specific technology.

* Maybe how it maps into cloud-agnostic technology

Hybrid cloud - solutions should work on Amazon, Azure, OpenStack, Bluemix, etc. [on and off prems]

* What about Compute Canada? [should be the same on on-premises]

Follow Canada's Open First White paper

* i.e., Open Source

Code of Conduct: CNCF Code of Conduct

* Respect everyone
* Guidelines to adhere to
* Is there a government-specific one?
* Values and ethics guideline probably covers it

Govcloud GitHub - skunkworks

* Share stuff
* Anyone wants to share, would be nice to share in one area

govcloud.ca - hosted Hugo static site

* would like to see blog stuff sharing what we are working on
* promote single developer who's working in a department, make it more visible
* acknowledge and share work

YouTube videos

* Would be nice to go back and see what was demoed

Would be nice to host some of the foundational containers - GC Tools

* Share base layers
* Pull and extend, etc.
* Centralized place for all of government to use

[Definition.]

Uses an open-source software stack:

* containerized
* dynamically orchestrated
* microservices orientated

### Methods of Communication

Preferences?

Will suggests Slack channel.

Some departments have blocked Slack.

- What about GC Message? It's a Rocket chat. message.gccloud.ca (happens to be running in a container)

### Virtual Meetups

Some people asked for full virtual.

Hangouts is blocked at some departments.

WebEx should be accessible, but some departments have network issues.

* At least one has a preference for in-room, not lag, etc.
* Maybe for smaller ones
* Play by ear.
* Would allow outside of NCR
* Fully remote is better than half-half

### Subsequent Presentations

Would others be interested in sharing?

Yes there are some interested.

Other topics we can have if no one to present at a meeting (solve a problem, Stats will demo, etc.)

Really want others to share what they are working on.

### Miscellaneous

Anything else?

- There is also a GC Cloud working group (currently more enterprise architecture)
  - Does IaaS, container architecture, etc.
  - May dictate what developers use
  - Members from this group in that group may present both ways (to GCWG and to us)
- Leave ourselves some breathing room for future when coming up with policies, guidelines, etc.
  - If they don't work, we can make them better
- Vendor participation?
  - Closed off to non-GoC at the moment
  - Vendors are NOT allowed, but we are interested in *inviting* them in
    - No objections
    - Make them aware to share expertise and NOT sell (NO SALES)
      - Pivotal and OpenShift want to show off what they have [we told them to wait a few meetings]
- Get the word out to other developers (share the Meetup on Meetup.com)
- Maybe sometimes have some social meetups after the meetings

## Containers

- Power on development and deployment side
- Platform independence (local desktop, dev servers, prod servers, etc.)
- Containers usually a few dozen MBs, some are larger (can do both)
- Higher utilization of underlying hardware
- Isolation from other containers
- Used by Google and Twitter for years
- 71% of Fortune 100 companies are running containers.

Didn't mention Docker, but it's one of many. Containerization should be more general.

- Docker for Mac comes with Kubernetes
- Swarm is still there, but may be gone in a few years

[Demo: github.com/drupalwxt/site-wxt]

- docker/Dockerfile
- Auto builds on docker hub (https://hub.docker.com/u/drupalwxt/site-wxt/) when pushing to the repo
- Azure container registry available by request in Canada, available in US East

[Demo: https://github.com/govcloud/docker-sas4c]

- ADD/COPY will still be there if you use it, so adds to space use
- Has a custom entry point script

### Design Patterns

From: RedHat Design Principles

1. Single concern: Every container should address a single concern and do it well (can also replace with a similar container)

2. Image immutability: Regardless where the container is, it's the same

3. High observability: Unified way to package and run applications (as a black box), exposes APIs for reaching in (health check, liveness, readiness, logs, etc.)

4. Lifecycle conformance: Application has way to read events coming from the platform - it should conform and respond

5. Process disposability: Kill container and it's gone

6. Self containment: Container should contain everything it needs at build time (libraries, language runtime, etc.). Exceptions are things such as configurations, which must be provided at runtime.

7. Runtime confinement: You can limit the resources of the container

### Structural Patterns

From: Design patterns for container-based distributed system (Google, Burns and Oppenheimer)
Structure among containers. These containers do not run alone, they run at a higher unit (e.g., pod)

1. Sidecar: extends and enhances the functionality of an existing container with extending or modifying it

2. Initializers: Separation of concerns by providing a separate lifecycle for initialization. All initializers have to finish in order and successfully for the application container to run.

3. Ambassador: Specialized sidecar for hiding the complexity and provide a unified interface for external interfaces

4. Adaptor: Abstracts some logic (e.g., make generic some external information)

## Kubernetes

### Network Tips

**ClusterIP**: Exposes the service on a cluster-internal IP. Only reachable within the cluster

**NodePort**: Most primitive way to get external traffic, all traffic to port on node will forward to the service

**LoadBalancer**: Exposes the service to the internet, all traffic will forward to the service

**Ingress**: Acts as a smart router for multiple services

### Why?

- Orchestrators organize containers across multiple nodes (each of which is equal)
- Kubernetes has won the war among orchestrators. All public clouds have support for it, and most if not all provide a managed kubernetes service. PaaS are also adding support for it.
- 2nd largest project on GitHub, > 30000 users on Slack (incl. Google engineers)

### Demos

- Kubernetes dashboard
- Configmaps are output as files in the container
- Draft (you have code but no helm chart / kubernetes manifests)
- Helm (think of as a package manager)
- Helm subcharting
- VS Code / Helm + Kubernetes integration (regular Visual Studio does include it)
- CNCF et al (Prometheus)
- Azure AKS, ACS and ACS engine (https://github.com/Azure/acs-engine) (`not enough time`)
- Pachyderm (`not enough time`)
